The goal of this study is to produce ecological niche models and maps of the potential distribution of three mosquitoes
competent to transmit West Nile virus. This workflow derives from the earlier study of Drake & Beier on the potential
distribution of An. arabiensis in Africa. Therefore, this initial work will focus on the potential distribution in Africa.
Additional questions to be answered include:
1. What is the right geographic scope of this study (Africa? Global?)
2. If new data are acquired, should it be obtained at higher resolution?
3. Should maps be projected in equal area format? (not relevant to data sampling, but possibly relevant to data thinning)
4. Are projections for future climate desired?
5. Are there relevant land use data that might be used as predictor variables?
In addition, because of the aggregation of Culex records, this study might provide a good opportunity to showcase the
plug-and-play models. In this case, it may be desirable to compare thinned data (which are less susceptible to sampling
heterogeneity, but fewer in number) and non-thinned data (which are expected to be more susceptible to sampling hetero-
geneity, here counteracted by the plug-and-play method). This study may be a good occasion to introduce the concept of
“data calibration”.

Environmental data include baseline (average for years 1950-2000) and forecasted data for 2050 for Africa. Forecasted data
were generated by the Hadley CM 3 model for scenario A1B, A2A, and B2A and have been statistically downscaled toa
110 minute resolution using the delta method. Raw data were obtained from http://www.ccafs-climate.org/data/. The
environmental data are stored in R Data file Africa.RData. Scripts have been written to construct the environmental dataset
from raw data files, but take a very long time to execute. Therefore, these data have been stored as an R workspace, which
is loaded here.